As a security analyst,
you might be required
to read or write code.
One of the biggest challenges is
getting it to run and
function properly.
In fact, fixing
complex errors in
code can sometimes
take up just as much,
if not more, time than
writing your code.
This is why it's important
to develop this skill.
Now that you've learned the
basics of coding in Python,
it's important to learn
how to deal with errors.
For that reason, we'll focus
on debugging your code.
Debugging is the practice of
identifying and fixing
errors in code.
In this video, we'll explore
some techniques for this.
There are three types of errors:
syntax errors, logic
errors, and exceptions.
Syntax errors involve
invalid usage
of the Python language,
such as forgetting to
add a colon after
a function header.
Let's explore this
type of error.
When we run this code,
we get a message that indicates
there's a syntax error.
Depending on the
Python environment,
it may also display
additional details.
We'll typically get
information about
the error, like its location.
These syntax errors
are often easy to fix
since you can find exactly
where the error happened.
They are similar to correcting
simple grammar
mistakes in an email.
Since the error message tells
us the problem is on
the line that defines the
function, let's go there.
In this case, we can add
a colon to the header
and resolve our error.
When we run it again,
there's no longer
an error message.
This is just one example
of a syntax error.
Other examples include omitting
a parenthesis after a function,
misspelling a Python keyword,
or not properly closing
quotation marks for a string.
Next, let's focus
on logic errors.
Logic errors may not
cause error messages;
instead, they produce
unintended results.
A logic error could be
as simple as writing
the incorrect text within
a print statement, or
it might involve
something like writing
a less than symbol instead
of less than or equal to symbol.
This change in
operator would exclude
a value that was needed for
the code to work as intended.
For example, imagine
that you reach out to
a response team when
the priority level of
an issue is less than
three instead of less
than or equal to three.
This means all
events classified as
priority level 3 could go
unnoticed and unresolved.
To diagnose a logic error
that's difficult to find,
one strategy is to
use print statements.
You'll need to insert
print statements
throughout your code.
The print statements should
describe the location
in the code;
for example, "print line 20"
or "print line 55: inside
the conditional".
The idea is to use these
print statements to
identify which sections of
the code are
functioning properly.
When a print statement
doesn't print as expected,
this helps you identify
sections of the
code with problems.
Another option for identifying
logic errors is to
use a debugger.
A debugger will let you
insert breakpoints
into your code.
Breakpoints allow you to
segment your code into
sections and run just
one portion at a time.
Just like with the
print statements,
running these sections
independently
can help isolate
problems in the code.
Let's move on to our last
type of error: an exception.
Exceptions happen when the
program doesn't know how to
execute code even though
there are no problems
with the syntax.
Exceptions occur for a variety
of reasons. For example,
they can happen when
something is mathematically
impossible, like asking the code
to divide something by 0.
Exceptions might
also happen when you
ask Python to access
index values that don't
exist or when Python
doesn't recognize variable
or function names.
Exceptions also may occur
when you use an
incorrect data type.
Let's demonstrate an exception.
Let's say you have
a variable called
my_string that contains
the word "security".
Since this string
has 8 characters,
we can successfully print
any index less than 8.
Index 0 contains "s."
Index 1 contains "e."
And index 2 contains "c."
But, if you try to
access the character
at index 100, you'll
get an error.
Let's run this and
explore what happens.
After it successfully prints
the first three statements,
we get an error message:
"string index out of range."
For exception errors,
you can also make
use of debuggers and
print statements to figure
out the potential
source of error.
Errors and exceptions can
be expected when
working in Python.
The important thing is to
know how to deal with them.
Hopefully, this video provided
some valuable insight
about debugging code.
This will help
ensure that the code
that you write is functional.